Multiple independant news organizations claim it as a joint operation of US Israel


Worlds first digital weapon - stux net(worm)
joint operation of us and israel
Upoaded to iranian nuclear facility(natanz)
nuclear facility making a bomb

stux net sabotaged centrifuges used to enrich uranium and make them explode

2007- Stuxnet V1 launched after seeing centrifuges explode

Centrifuges spun uranium hexafluoride at super sonic speeds. - to seperate isotopes to enrich uranium - pressure after enriching to be released using valves.

stuxnet aimed to keep these valves closed by infiltrating computers that monitored this process

uranium gas solidifies inside the centrifuge causing it to spin out of control and inside pressure may cause it to explode, wasting uranium


					-----------Infiltrarion-------------- 2007

Iran has air gapped facility (systems are kept at a specified distance from wires and other technical equipment to avoid electromagnetic waves), so systems are not connected to external networks.

Stuxnet is uploaded physically by a removeable device to the computers via a inside man

Stuxnet is built to operate for a long time in the background while being un noticed.

It uses a rootkit to avoid detection from the operating system    *****

Uses a stolen digital certificate to authorize and autenticate(trusted source) its commands. - used private keys from 2 maufacturers in Taiwan to sign digital certificates


						-----------Infiltrarion-------------- 2009

Iran was still making significant process despite being slowed down

New Version of stuxnet uses 4 zero day exploits. (Cyber attack making use of firmware vulnerablity, usually unknown to vendor to breach the system - original one used bug in auto run feature of windows)


							-----Working--------


overrides softwares contolling centrifuges, but altering their files

Due to this, systems monitoring centrifuge's speed wouldn't detect any malfunctions, preventing altering of speeds to normal




							----STUXNET V2----

This worm spread to the network of natan facilty.

Infected Computer when connected to the internal network, allowed stuxnet to reach every computer on the facility.

Some of these computers were carried outside the facility to connect to external networks, causing stux net to spread world wide.

It spread at an alarming speed, it was inevitable to stop it now.


